ORIGINAL ARTICLE
Smart manufacturing systems: state of the art and future trends
Y. J. Qu1 & X. G. Ming1 & Z. W. Liu1 & X. Y. Zhang1 & Z. T. Hou2
Received: 11 October 2018 /Accepted: 14 April 2019 /Published online: 8 May 2019
# Springer-Verlag London Ltd., part of Springer Nature 2019
Abstract
With the development and application of advanced technologies such as Cyber Physical System, Internet of Things, Industrial
Internet of Things, Artificial Intelligence, Big Data, Cloud Computing, Blockchain, etc., more manufacturing enterprises are
transforming to intelligent enterprises. Smart manufacturing systems (SMSs) have become the focus of attention of some
countries and manufacturing enterprises. At present, there are some applications of SMSs in different industrial fields.
However, there is still a lack of a unified definition of SMSs and a unified analysis of requirements. In order to have a
comprehensive understanding of SMSs, this paper summarized the evolution, definition, objectives, functional requirements,
business requirements, technical requirements, and components of SMSs. At the same time, it points out the current development
status and level. Based on above, an autonomous SMSs model driven by dynamic demand and key performance indicators is
proposed. Through the review of this paper, the reference can be provided for the transformation of more manufacturing
enterprises from the traditional to the intellectualized ones.
Keywords Smart manufacturing systems . Evolution of manufacturing . Requirements . Components . Future perspective
1 Introduction
The fourth industrial revolution is a new stage for manufacturing systems, especially smart manufacturing systems (SMSs),
which can quickly respond to the global competition and customization requirements. Hyoung Seok et al. [1] analyzed the
strategy of some countries such as Korea—“Manufacturing
Innovation 3.0,” Germany—“Industry 4.0,” and USA—“smart
manufacturing” in building SMSs and the development of related technologies. Andrew Kusiak [2] gave six pillars of SMSs
from the manufacturing components in manufacturing technology and processes, materials, data, predictive engineering, sustainability, resource sharing, and networking. Bo-hu Li et al. [3]
gave the review of AI applications in intelligent manufacturing.
Nagorny et al. [4] gave a review of Big Data application in smart
manufacturing (SM) to optimize the key performance indicator,
diagnose, predict, and optimize design. Lidong and Guanghui
[5] gave the characteristic and the relationship of Big Data,
Industry 4.0, and CPS. Furthermore, other studies are concerned
of specific industrial fields, such as automobile manufacturing
[6], electronic industry [7], and other specific industries.
Some extensive effort continues to be exerted to make
manufacturing intelligence; strong evidences have proved that
SMSs have become highly autonomous. These changes are
slowly becoming reality, and concluded as followings:
& Advanced information and communication technology
such as cognitive agent, swarm intelligence, and cloud
computing are used to integrate, organize, and allocate
the machine resources [8].
* Y. J. Qu
iansaqo00@163.com
X. G. Ming
xgming@sjtu.edu.cn
Z. W. Liu
ljplzw@163.com
X. Y. Zhang
513615330@qq.com
Z. T. Hou
117615188@qq.com
1 Shanghai Institute of Producer Service Development, Shanghai
Research Center for industrial Informatics, Shanghai Key Lab of
Advanced Manufacturing Environment, Institute of Intelligent
Manufacturing and Information Engineering, School of Mechanical
Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Dongchuan Road 800,
Minhang District, Shanghai City, People’s Republic of China
2 Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, 1068 Xueyuan Avenue, Shenzhen University Town,
Shenzhen, People’s Republic of China
The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology (2019) 103:3751–3768
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00170-019-03754-7
& An increasing attention on areas such as self-regulation in
self-organizing multi-agent systems for adaptive and intelligent manufacturing control [9]. The emergence of selforganization value in intelligent manufacturing industry
chains model to select an elite strategy [10].
& The increasing importance of continuous improvement
[11], self-optimizing processes [12], and data-driven decision making [13].
& Predictive situation awareness [14], statistical process
monitoring and prognostics [15], prognostics and health
management [14], predictive maintenance [16], and the
predictive manufacturing situation [17] are increasing the
manufacturing operation reliability and accuracy.
However, there is no clear definition, uniform requirements, and organization research of SMSs. This article provides a review witnessing requirements of SMSs and components of SMSs problems. The authors review papers [11,
18–25] for an extensive understanding of requirements and
components for a review [26–31]. This paper aims to explore
the existing literature on integrated requirements and components by analyzing both problems of technological characteristics and solution approaches applied to identify lack in the
literature and highlight future research opportunities. The
main contributions of this study are as follows: (1) providing
an extensive review of recent research in the field of SMSs; (2)
proposing basic objective and requirements of SMSs; (3) providing the components based on the basic objective and requirements; (4) indicating the further research directions to
form autonomous operation. Through this paper, the authors
want to give a requirement list for traditional manufacturing,
overall framework, and future perspective based on the emerging technologies and managements.
This paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, the evolution of Computer Integrated Manufacturing (CIM) to SMSs is
briefly discussed. In Section 3, the objective and requirements
of SMSs are discussed. The components of SMSs are described in Section 4. Section 5 discusses research challenges
and future perspective. Section 6 concludes this paper.
2 The evolution and definition of SMSs
To better understand SMSs, the authors analyzed the relevant
research in the literature, and to illustrate SMSs’ objective and
requirements, a classification scheme including keywords and
key characteristic cluster was made. The survey includes Web of
Science categories such as The International Journal of
Advanced Manufacturing Technology, International Journal of
Production Research, Journal of Intelligent Manufacturing,
Journal of Manufacturing Systems, Computers & Electrical
Engineering, and so on. The search is narrowed using the following title and keywords, including the following: smart
manufacturing systems, Internet of things/IoTs, Industrial
Internet of Things/IIoTs, Big Data, Cloud/Cloud Computing,
Artificial intelligent/AI, Cyber Physical System/CPS, Industry
4.0, and using the main research organization such as smart
manufacturing leadership coalition (SMLC), National Institute
of Standards and Technology (NIST), Industrial Internet
Consortium (IIC) Technology Working Group, and so on. In
addition, the references cited in each relevant article are examined to find out additional sources of information. The articles
are reviewed from 2014 to 2018. We will introduce the evolution of SMSs and the definition of SMSs in the next subsections.
2.1 Evolution of smart manufacturing systems
The evolution of SMSs is not only related to the technological
development, but also related to the dynamic requirements of
stakeholders and innovative business model. Smart
manufacturing systems get real-time data which improves
the accuracy of decision making, enhances the efficiency
and performance of the plant, and increases overall productivity. The evolution of SMSs is shown in Fig. 1. Of course, there
are many other manufacturing paradigms (digital manufacturing, network manufacturing, lean manufacturing, agile
manufacturing, etc.) in evolution roadmap of manufacturing
system.
In this paper, we mainly focus on the SMSs. Typical paradigms of smart manufacturing [35] are proposed in the report
as follows:
& Industrial community modeling and simulation platforms,
internet-based swarm intelligence customized, innovative
design, and model-driven intelligent collaborative
manufacturing.
& Integrating human factors and decisions into plant optimization software and user interfaces.
& Affordable industrial data collection, management systems, and application, autonomous smart manufacturing
units and smart production.
& Enterprise-wide integration including business systems,
manufacturing plants, customers and suppliers, and
knowledge-driven cloud service for related stakeholders.
2.2 Fundamental definitions in smart manufacturing
Due to the importance of the fundamental concepts of smart
manufacturing, there has been a growing requirement of constructing SMSs to provide the basis for further research on
requirements, objective, components, research challenges,
and future perspective. Through the past research review, we
summarized the definition of smart manufacturing from engineering view, smart interconnection (IoT and CPS) view, and
precise decision (Big Data, AI, and Cloud Computing) view.
3752 Int J Adv Manuf Technol (2019) 103:3751–3768
Definition 1: From engineering view, smart manufacturing
[35] is an intensified application of advanced intelligence systems which enable the rapid manufacturing of new products,
dynamic response to product demand, and real-time optimization of manufacturing production and supply chain networks.
Meanwhile, SMSs are new platforms which integrate the
products, operations, and business systems spanning factories,
distribution centers, companies, and the entire supply chains
under the knowledge-rich environment. In SMSs, all aspects
of manufacturing are connected, intake of raw materials to the
delivery of finished smart products to customer.
Definition 2: From interconnection and communication (IoT
and CPS) view, SMSs for Industry 4.0 is proposed by Zheng
et al. [36]. Using sensors and communication technologies to
capture data at all stages of manufacturing, SMSs are getting
smart in that the rate of production is increased, while errors
and production waste are reduced.
Definition 3: From the view of predictive analysis and decision
making, more accessible and ubiquitous data form big data
environment, help manufacturing enterprises better predict,
balance production, and improve their efficiency and productivity [37]. Big data-based SMSs optimize the planning and
control of manufacturing operations including the predictive
supply, predictive manufacturing, fault diagnosis, asset utilization and risk assessment, etc.
3 Objectives and requirements of SMSs
The goal of SMSs is realized effectively through functions,
which are accomplished by business activities integrating the
relevant advanced technologies [25]. Performance metrics are
vital factors in SMSs operation [20]. Emerging technologies
promote the related business development and business model
innovation. Getting the accurate requirements of SMSs is the
initial task for the designer, consultant, and manufacturers in
the design and development stage. Systematic identification of
SMSs’ requirements is the primary task to be solved for manufacturers. This paper proposed the requirements of SMSs
inspired by the reference architecture of Industry 4.0 [38],
reference architecture of Industrial internet reference architecture [39], and framework for Cyber Physical Systems.
Meanwhile, the authors identified and summarized the objectives and requirement status of the SMSs based on recent
years’ research from the design and development view. The
authors suggest the vital factors needed to be considered, including the basic key objectives/value proposition in the strategic level, business and autonomous functions in the tactical
level, components in the executive level, and the emerging
technologies in the support level.
Based on the literature and key words clustering, the authors suggest traditional manufacturing systems in transformation need to consider basic requirements from four perspectives, including objective, functional requirements, technological requirements, and business requirements. The objectives
and requirements of SMSs are shown in Fig. 2. The detailed
objective and requirements contents of SMSs are introduced
in the following subsections.
3.1 Key objective
Bititci et al. [40] quantified and aggregated the performance
strategies on cost, quality, delivery, and flexibility in the
SMSs. Meanwhile, mapping the strategic goal of performance
is proposed in SMSs design phase [18], containing agility,
asset utilization, and sustainability under the sensor-enabled
manufacturing equipment and controller software environment. Autonomous, self-aware, and self-correcting method
Aspects 
Time 
Computer 
technology and 
Lean thinking,
AI 1.0 
CPS, Cloud 
computing 
Big data, Internet 
of things, AI 2.0, 
AR/VR, Block 
chain 
Computer 
technology, 
information 
technology 
Personalization 
Sustainability 
and Customer 
participation
Computer 
integrated 
manufacturing 
Intelligent 
manufacturing 
systems 
Smart 
manufacturing 
system
1970s 1990s 2010s
Business 
model
Manufacturing 
paradigm 
Enable 
technologies 
Mass 
customization
Fig. 1 The evolution of smart
manufacturing systems [32–34]
Int J Adv Manuf Technol (2019) 103:3751–3768 3753
is proposed by Feeney et al. [41] mainly focusing on the
product design. As already stated in the previous part of this
paper, the actual definition or clustering of the objective of
SMSs has not yet been settled on. This paper divides the key
objective requirements of SMSs into three aspects though the
K-means method.
3.2 
Function
3.3 Emerging 
Technologies 
3.1 Key 
objectives
Business 
planning & 
logistics
Big data 
CPS
Cloud & fog 
computing 
AI
Self-sensing 
Self-adaptive 
Load-balancing 
Status sensing 
Win-win partnership 
Autonomous lean 
operation 
Self-decision 
Sustainable value 
High performance computing
Platform/resources sharing
Prediction and anomaly detection 
Discover knowledge & create value
Smart machines and 
advanced robotics et.
Quality management 
Manufacturing analytics 
Supply chain Mgt.
Planning and control 
Performance assurance 
Design and improvement 
Predict mechanical failures
Predict remaining useful life
Interaction and communication
Computing 
Adaptive 
Anomaly detection 
Reconfigurable 
Optimization
Predictive & Prognostics
Key objective and 
requirements SMSs
3.4 
Business 
Self-organization 
IoTs
Interconnection
Real-time communication
Real-time synchronization & optimization
Cognitive 
Economic value 
Social value 
Enviroment value 
Manufacturer 
Multi-stakeholder (customer, 
supplier, communities, etc.)
Lean management 
Autonomous operation 
Accurate and timely decision -making
 Operations 
managements
Control 
Block chain Immutability, Anti-counterfeiting 
3D printing Print-on-demand, easy to maintain and deploy 
VR Improve user satisfy 
AR Sharing knowledge 
Fig. 2 Mind map of the SMSs’
objectives and requirements
3754 Int J Adv Manuf Technol (2019) 103:3751–3768
Autonomous lean operation The main target for establishing
autonomous lean SMSs is to increase the efficiency and autonomy of manufacturing system. It is necessary to develop an
evaluation system that considers the changes in emerging and
order processing due to autonomy. Smart manufacturing systems enable the user to evaluate autonomous processes against
conventionally managed processes. Furthermore, it is necessary to define the limitations of management and autonomy to
better integrate different factors (resource, KPIs, assemble)
into the system structure. In this way, dynamical targets can
be defined and new characteristics of autonomy can be considered. Autonomous SMSs [42] contain the ability of
reacting to special and unanticipated events. Concerning the
scheduling of appropriate activities, management strategies
are required to avoid/minimize the risk. Another autonomous
SMSs consider the enterprise operation under the lean thinking, integrating AI and managerial method. This objective
mainly focuses on the fusion of emerging technology and
management.
Sustainable value added Oertwig et al. [43] proposed the
forming global value creation networks in the design and control of partner relations for an economic, environmental, and
social evaluation of products, services, and value chains to be
solved. Adam Brown et al. [44] introduced that achieving
sustainability in manufacturing requires a holistic view spanning product design, manufacturing processes, manufacturing
systems, and the entire supply chain. Particularly, the notion of
case-based research acting to extend or refine the theory is
relevant to this work. This objective mainly focuses on sustainability and value added in SMSs lifecycle.
Win-win partnership In autonomous operation environments,
the ultimate objective of SMSs is to create a real-time and
continuous cooperation in which the entire lifecycle of
SMSs is more effective than the sum of all its individual components. Win-win partnership is based on the autonomous
lean operation, sustainable value added, information, and
knowledge sharing to achieve multi-stakeholder and SMSs
enterprise co-development.
3.2 Functional requirements
Functional model of SMSs identifies the requirement of activities and makes those activities efficiently and effectively
based on the off-the-shelf software systems [25]. The usage
of real-time analytics capacities are (1) gathering data and
converting it into useful knowledge, and (2) developing predictive, diagnostic, and decision models [11]. Intelligent enterprise should then encompass features like adaptivity, reasoning, knowledge representation, and processing [45, 46].
Functional requirements are analyzed from the autonomous
capacity view to analyze the SMSs, including the capacity of
capturing the information and data from smart equipment or
mobile terminal, capacity of adapting the dynamic requirements and activities, and auto-optimization capacity. This paper concludes the SMSs fundamental functions including selfsensing, self-adaptive, self-organizing, and self-deciding to
achieve the manufacturing system to be smarter driven by
CPS, big data, AI, and other advanced technologies.
Autonomous functions are introduced as follows:
Self-sensing function is the basic function of SMSs, which
captures the data and the critical information from the environment, physical or production process involving product,
quality, material, machine, tools, etc. Sensing enterprise is
proposed in [47] to describe “an enterprise making use of
the sensing possibilities provided by interconnected ‘environments’, anticipating future decisions by using multidimensional information captured through physical and virtual objects and providing added value information to enhance
its global context awareness.”
Self-adaptive function is operating the behavior function of
SMSs’ elements, which are based on the real-time sensing
data and information. Through the different algorithm and
rules, self-adaptive behavior of SMSs is regarded as continuous learning or life-long learning. As a primary intelligence
level, adaptivity implies the capacity of acting on rules “IfThen-Else” [48].
Self-organizing function is the capacity of solving the
emergent requirements, which is based on the self-sensing
and self-adaptivity. The requirements of self-organization of
SMSs are discussed under the dynamics, distribution and decentralization, self-organization, and self-regulation environments through the multi-agent and asynchronous backtracking
technology.
Self-deciding function requirements are based on the
above-mentioned functions, which is data-driven decision
making in manufacturing [13], including the identification,
collection, communication, analysis, sharing, retrieving, and
learning. This function solves certainty questions, possible
questions, and indeterminacy questions in the SMSs to
achieve the autonomy and precise decision, which is based
on the big data including historical and real-time data.
Scholars’ research on autonomous function related SM operation management is mostly focused on a different application area, such as simply studying from quality improvement
or remote maintenance. Based on the existing research and
combined with the related SMSs projects, we summarize
and conclude the related research of autonomous functions
of SMSs shown in Table 1.
3.3 Technological requirements
It is no doubt that the integration and cross-application of
many advanced technologies enhance the achievement of
SMSs’ autonomous lean operation and sustainable value
Int J Adv Manuf Technol (2019) 103:3751–3768 3755
added. Digitalization enhancing business process software
and manufacturing execution systems are now available to
satisfy the requirements of fully computerized and automated
integration [58]. Application production and product design
software system provide virtual prototyping for virtual
manufacturing system. It carries out manufacturing tasks and
decision making based on digital models and simulation in a
virtual environment [59]. We mainly focus on the smart
connection technologies, smart decision, and predictive
technologies. The technologies are applied in SMSs
concluded as follows:
& Cyber physical shop floors were mentioned in [6, 53, 60,
61] to achieve self-organizing and self-adaptive intelligent
shop floor. A knowledge-based tool for designing cyber
physical production systems is provided in [62].
& Lee [63] provided the design challenges for the computing
and networking technologies. Their research gave an adequate foundation for CPS to suit SMSs. The design and
modeling, simulation and integration of Cyber Physical
System methods and applications were provided in article
[64].
& Visualization techniques and virtual reality technologies are
applied in the manufacturing system to improve efficiency
in product development, manufacturing design, planning,
assembly, and disassembly process training [34, 65–67].
In the Industry 4.0 era, some research focus on the evolution of production systems [68], lean production systems [69,
70], and demonstration production line [71]; other researches
demonstrate the key technologies [36], application and challenges [72], smart operator [73], and implementation smart
factories [74]. Syed Imran Shafiq et al. [75] gave the framework for the intelligent CIM in IoT setting, including four
stages such as hard-resource of CIM, IoTs, sensing and semantic analysis, and cloud CIM application. Sascha Julian
Oks et al. [76] developed the application map for industrial
Cyber Physical Systems. Therefore, the technologies of SMSs
can be concluded into two types: the basic technologies (simulation, manufacturing engineering technologies, autonomous
robots’ technologies, additive manufacturing, etc.); the emerging technologies (Industrial Internet of Things, Cyber Physical
System, augmented reality/virtual reality (AR/VR), Big Data,
Cloud/Cloud Computing, 3D printing, cybersecurity, etc.).
Based on the related researches and above mentioned, we
conclude the selected emerging technologies that are particularly significant for SMSs illustrated in Table 2.
3.4 Business requirements
Based on the functional and technological requirements of
SMSs, in this subsection, the business requirements of SMSs
are proposed to better illustrated the existing SMSs. Industry
4.0 contains three dimensions to promote the computerization
of manufacturing industries, supplying more flexibility, reduce lead time, adapting to customer demands with small
batch sizes, and provide new offering of downstream services
[5]. The design principles for Industry 4.0 [113, 114] include
Table 1 Related research about autonomous functions of SMSs
Autonomous function Characteristic Description, methods, and benefits
Self-sensing function Status sensing Sensing ability sustains the system’s interoperability and seamless integration in
enterprise information systems [46, 49]. The data is obtained from the environment
and smart shop floor by perception module and sensing devices. This method
used in the matching system and ubiquitous sensor network to collect production data [50]
Cognitive Self-aware inventory monitoring is proposed in [51] to maintain adequate stock
levels to help manufacturer adjust increasing demand or rising cost
Self-adaptive function Anomaly detection Self-adaptive energy optimization has been applied in the prediction-based
manufacturing center to demand side management for Cyber Physical Systems
[52] through CPSO and PSO
Adaptivity Self-adaptive model is proposed in the CPS of intelligent shop floor [53] to
effectively handle disturbances by the gray relational analysis, multi-agent,
and the hierarchy conflict resolution methods
Self-organizing function Reconfigurable Self-organizing effectively improved the reconfigurability and responsiveness for
intelligent shop floor [53]
Load balancing Self-organizing evaluation model and algorithm are used in cloud manufacturing
platforms based on user behavior data to effectively evaluate manufacturing
cloud service and users by entropy value method [54]
Self-deciding function Predictive & prognostics Smart decision making is solved by search algorithm [55] to design manufacturing
network, which is used the Pareto-optimal method in handling production
monitoring and scheduling [56]
Optimization According to quality-oriented model, smart machining system is achieved
self-optimizing control [57]
3756 Int J Adv Manuf Technol (2019) 103:3751–3768
Table 2 Related research about emerging technologies used in SMSs
Tech. Characteristic Solving questions, application benefits, and limitations
CPS Real-time communication Cyber physical manufacturing services are new data-based services
and business models [77]
Interaction and communication Constructing five levels’ CPS manufacturing processes [78] to provide
optimized production planning and inventory management plans for
factory management
Computing Remote real-time sensing, process monitoring, and diagnosis and prognosis
by the high performance computing [79, 80]
IoTs Interconnection Capturing and sharing real-time production information through reducing
inventory and lead time [81], which is implemented in automotive
harness parts manufacturing
Real-time synchronization
& optimization
Realize real-time synchronization in production logistics [82] to achieve
multilevel dynamic adaptability
Realize smart interconnection in handling heterogeneous equipment,
online service generation, and quick configuration and deployment [83]
Realize the intelligent perception and optimal-allocation [84], to solve
manufacturing resource matching to supply-demand questions.
Enhance real-time energy efficiency optimization in production
management [85], which is verified in energy-intensive manufacturing
enterprises
Big data Discover knowledge
& create value
Used in the manufacturing and maintenance process to discover knowledge
to optimize production process and service strategy [86]. Visible value
streams, RFID-Cuboid model is proposed by Zhong et al. [87] presenting
the RFID-enabled shop floor logistics big data to visualize operations and
behaviors. Improving existing abilities (fault detection [88]) and supporting
new abilities (predictive maintenance [89]), case study as online analytics
of semiconductor manufacturing [7, 16]
Prediction Taking benefits to manufacturing industry including forecasts of product
demand, quicker service and operational support to customers, and
optimization of the factory performance [90]
Used in supply chain management mitigates supply chain social risk [91].
An architecture of big data analytics platform is proposed by Lee et al. [92] to
help more small- and medium-sized manufacturing enterprise to solve the
quality questions in the factory. Statistical process monitoring and intelligent
monitoring system consist of initialization, learning, and prediction in real
time [93]. Prediction and anomaly detection improve diagnostics, and
prognostics in equipment health monitoring, predictive maintenance [94, 95],
predictive scheduling, virtual metrology, and yield prediction
Optimization & accurate
and timely decision making
Optimization scheduling to ensure the load balance and shorten the total
completion time [96]. Through the big data feedback, reduced load-unbalance
in the smart shop floor and self-organized manufacturing system [97],
self-detection requirement of the failures, and anomalies need to be
optimized [98].
Optimization product design to achieve customized requirement [99] through
the real-time feedback from customer. Real-time data and manufacturing
intelligence achieve accurate and timely decision making [100, 101]
Cloud & CC Sharing resource Cloud Computing and cloud platform (IaaS, PaaS, SaaS) are widely used in
manufacturing sectors and services sectors [102] and help more enterprise
share their resource (manufacturing software, facilities, and capabilities) to
their staff, supplier, and customer [103, 104]
High performance computing Applied in CAD/CAE/CAM using cloud-based high performance computing,
and jam management of green information systems [105]. Realized
through obviating the disturbances, intelligent control and load balancing,
improve performance, energy consumption forecasting, real-time data
analytics, and optimized layout system [106]
AI Predict mechanical failures
and remaining useful life
Visual recognition of quality detection and machine learning algorithms,
data-driven methods, model-based prognostics, tool wear prediction,
prognostics, and health management [14]
Int J Adv Manuf Technol (2019) 103:3751–3768 3757
interconnection, information transparency, decentralized decisions, technical assistance, interoperability, virtualization,
real-time capability, service orientation, and modularity.
Dmitry Ivanova et al. [115] proposed the dynamic model
and an algorithm for short-term supply chain scheduling in
the smart factory Industry 4.0. Zhang et al. [116] gave the
review of job shop scheduling under Industry 4.0.
Smart manufacturing systems are based on the emerging
technologies such as IIoTs/IoTs, CPS, Big Data, Cloud/Cloud
Computing, and AI, which have the advantage of the organization, information, and technology from awareness of the
business knowledge to real-time optimization KPIs.
Sustainable products and services make SMSs reengineer
their business model to be smarter, and achieve co-creation
value for related stakeholders. Table 3 gives the status and
levels of business requirements in SMSs based on ISA95.
4 Components of SMSs
This section seeks to outline the components of SMSs not
only according to the existing literature and studies on a conceptual framework/reference architecture of SMSs, but also
integrating the objective and requirements of SMSs. Cyber
physical production systems comprise smart machines,
warehousing systems, and production facilities that have been
developed and featured by integration of inbound logistics to
production, marketing, outbound logistics, and service based
on end-to-end information communication technology (ICT)
[61]. The main components of smart factory were concluded
into eight aspects, such as sensor, robot, smart product, machine tools, etc. [129]. This paper focuses on the taxonomy of
the three levels of SMSs according to Industry 4.0, Industry
Internet of Things, and Industrial Value Chain Initiative. The
status and level of components in SMSs are concluded in
Table 4.
4.1 Physical level
The basic requirements of SMSs are the physical levels (as
Fig. 3) including multi-agent and smart cells. The smart cells
are equipped with sensors, actuators, and communication
technology, including robotic, smart machine, smart meter,
and other infrastructures, and they can connect each other by
smart modules. Embedding the Wi-Fi, Bluetooth module, or
other sensing module and communication module into equipments and vehicles makes the production elements smarter,
such as self-adaptive of the processing temperature, online
quality control, and so on. Intelligent monitoring, intelligent
decision, and intelligent operation are the three aspects of the
smart device, smart software, and smart operation systems.
Edge integrated plant assets and self-aware (via sensors) of
their state [142]. Intelligent tracking in the supply chain uses
the wireless options such as RFID and GPS [143] which can
track the materials and product travel in internal and external
of the entire plant. It supplies accurate information and a visual experience to the related stakeholders.
The attributes of physical levels are reconfigurability,
adaptability, usability, autonomy, and interconnect ability. Under the smart attribute of physical level, smart
manufacturing systems can be connected and evolved
by itself.
4.2 Smart interconnection and communication level
Interconnection and communication levels (shown as Fig. 4)
including smart connection method are the media level between the application (cyber level) and physical layer. Smart
connection and communication technologies let manufacturing achieve the physical connection by using low energy and
high efficiency communication network, including collaboration, standards, and security. IoTs, Internet of People (IoP),
Internet of Everything (IoE), and wireless communication
Table 2 (continued)
Tech. Characteristic Solving questions, application benefits, and limitations
Cross-media reasoning, swarm intelligence, intensive deep learning, and
human machine hybrid augmented intelligence are used in autonomy
for smart manufacturing [42]
AR Sharing knowledge Supports quicker product and process design; applied in control and
maintenance activities [107]
VR Improve user satisfy 3D visualization, immersive experience, and virtual ergonomics are widely
used in design of systems-products in production [108, 109]
3D Printing Print-on-demand, easy to
maintain and deploy
3D printing is a business innovation for industrial manufacturer; however,
there are some limitation in usable materials, time-consuming 3D object
design, low productivity, and low precision [110]
Blockchain Immutability, Anti-counterfeiting Blockchain technology is used in the supply chain to enhance transparency
and traceability [111], and additive manufacturing for enhancing
anti-counterfeiting measures [112]
3758 Int J Adv Manuf Technol (2019) 103:3751–3768
technologies make machines, devices, sensors, and people
connected. Core components layer contain WSNs, IPV6,
Wi-Fi, WPAN, W-Mesh, WLAN, WWAN, IPV6, 4G/5G,
NB-IoT, Bluetooth, Zigbee, RFID, GPS, etc.
The attributes of interconnection levels include real-time,
synchronized integrated networks of RFIDs and WSNs merging IoT into enterprise systems and business. The smart factory and smart workshop can be easily achieved by the communication technology.
4.3 Application level
Smart manufacturing systems are integrated with the hardware
and software, connected with the physical world and cyber
world to construct the holographic, transparent, autonomous,
evolving, and openness platform. It corresponds to the contents mentioned above, such as cloud-based simulation, intelligent decision making, health management of intelligent devices, prediction analysis and precise decision making based
on large data, etc. Autonomous SMSs are proposed by adequately using human wisdom and the advanced sensor, data
dispatch, knowledge iteration, and the renewal technology for
manufacturing systems. For these trends, the manufacturing
problems can be solved by these new technologies. For example, Park and Tran [8] highlighted the equipping of the entities
in the manufacturing system with the decision making and
self-controlling abilities. Kaestle et al. [144] apply the onboard hardware of an autonomous and smart workpiece carrier in cyber physical electronics production. Autonomous operation provides an effective way to realize stakeholders’ value as follows:
& Supply the visual order system, traceable product quality
information, and accurate service to customer;
& Supply the real-time production information sharing, uniform supply chain communication platform, sharing the
production scheduling to supplier;
& Supply the job instruction, resource pull, active error
proofing, and real-time performance to employee;
& Supply long cycle operation comprehensive data, index
data of each functional operation, perform operational data
on site to Manager;
& Supply the real-time three wastes discharge information,
real-time information interaction platform to other
stakeholders.
The attributes of application level of SMSs include visualization, cognitive ability, adaptability, self-organizing ability,
self-healing ability, self-optimization, resiliency, and selfdecision ability.
Table 3 Status and levels of business requirements in SMSs based on ISA95
Business Classification Current situation and limitations
Business planning
& logistics (level 4)
Plant production scheduling The concepts, methods, and technologies of cognitive planning, cognitive
control, and cognitive operation for production systems are proposed [117]
Decision making method is proposed, which is based on energy integrated
production scheduling to optimize performance such as the production
throughput, cost, and energy consumption [118]
Supply management Optimization supply chain and manufacturing planning in chemical
industry [119]
Smart storage Causal link assessment is used in the industrial chemical plant diagnosis
under little or no data on fault conditions [120]
Operations managements
(level 3)
Production tracking Advanced process control: Big data applied in SMSs detect the anomaly,
and predictive maintenance using method such as partial least squares
supports vector machines [16]
Smart MES Design the Smart MES to solve the data synchronization and application
collaboration adoption of real-time communication environment [121]
Under the dynamically changing, process parameters are reined and
defined through model-based engineering and DMAIC, MAPEK [122]
Real-time diagnosis Resource failures frequently occur in SM information system [123].
Based on the causal link assessment for real-time diagnosis in
chemical process [120]
Control (level 0, 1, 2) Smart infrastructure Information communication technology (ICT) and infrastructure
(RFID, sensor) develop the cloud-based Smart machining systems [8].
Integrating the big data and Cloud Computing technology is proposed
in an article [124] used in a semiconductor company in Taiwan
Ubiquitous robotic Ubiquitous robotic systems and cloud robotics used in SMSs [125, 126]
[127] provide a new task execution and resource sharing
Smart sensor and connection Reflective-type optical sensor used in the online real-time measurement
[128]. Applying the RFID and wireless facilities to construct intelligent logistics [87]
Int J Adv Manuf Technol (2019) 103:3751–3768 3759
5 Research challenges and future perspective
In the past 5 years researches, the hot terms of Industry 4.0,
Cyber Physical systems, Big Data, Cloud/Cloud Computing
Manufacturing, and Internet of Things are promoting a new
manufacturing paradigm, smart manufacturing systems. It is
broadly accepted that SMSs provide much effective production, agility, sustainability, globalization, and customization.
Based on the previous research, we conclude some key challenges to address in the following:
& Smart manufacturing systems involve real-time acquisition of multiple resources and information across regions.
How to realize autonomous real-time perception of information across regions has become the primary issue of
research.
& Real-time collaborative optimization of multiple subsystems is involved in the activity cycle of SMSs. How to
achieve real-time collaborative optimization among subsystems has become a major problem.
& With the dynamic change of demand, how to quickly respond to demand, adapt to demand, and organize the related tasks of SMSs has become a major
challenge.
& In view of the pressure of cost reduction, high efficiency,
high quality, and diversification are being faced by SMSs;
how to realize the precise organization and autonomous
execution of manufacturing activities needs to be further
studied.
& An integrated autonomous evolution mechanism of SMSs
needs to be proposed to solve requirements, function, and
business requirements questions in the future work.
Based on the above-mentioned challenges, mapping
SMSs’ requirements to future perspective is shown in Table 5.
However, the potential economic benefits of SMSs may
offset with a few major challenges. In the Industry 4.0, autonomous, and AI 2.0 era, the traditional manufacturing systems
need to transform to SMSs. There is a lack of the autonomous
evolution mechanism and autonomous scheme of SMSs to
solve the challenges. In the future, the KPIs of SMSs will
automatically decomposed into sub-KPIs, achieved by autonomous evolution mechanism and autonomy scheme. The autonomous smart manufacturing systems are inspired by machine learning in which the KPIs and dynamic requirements
are input data, and the smart manufacturing scheme is the
target. By training, the autonomous SMSs can learn the
weights of different parameters and will have the ability of
outputting autonomous scheme intelligently. Inspired by the
autonomous systems and computer system, SMSs can autonomously output the solution based on dynamic requirements
and KPIs in the future as shown in Fig. 5.
5.1 Autonomous evolution mechanism for SMSs
The performance of SMSs is completely autonomous achieved
through the autonomous evolution mechanism to suit the multiobjective optimization and dynamic environmental change.
Table 4 Status and level of components in SMSs
Components of SMSs Classification Related contents
Physical level Smart machine, smart storage,
and communication device
Smart machine, smart product, storage and communication device, sensor parts:
multi-robot, smart robotic [130], autonomous mobile platforms, and automated
guided vehicles are used in assembly line and workshop [131]
Smart logistic Intelligent AGV (automated guided vehicle) can be used to optimize path based on
capability, cost, and time [132]
Smart connection and
communication level
Local network, CPS, RFID Wireless connects all equipment in smart shop flow [133]; data acquisition and
transmission are achieved by the sensor network [134]; 5G wireless communication is
used in SMSs scenarios based on massive machine type communication, ultra-reliable
and low latency communication, and enhanced mobile broadband [135]
Industrial IoTs To solve the real-time collaboration and interconnection between enterprises and
factories across regions, more enterprise adopt the IPV6 to realize the link-local and
global [136]
Application level Product lifecycle management Simulation and optimize design, product service, in the cloud SMSs platform to supply
continuous value [67]
Smart production system Process virtualization, real-time monitoring, self-organizing production activities, and
energy optimization virtual enterprise make real-time engineering decisions and
virtual inspection of the production [137, 138]
Real-time simulation scheduling system is proposed in an article [139], which is based
on cloud to help the user access to the mobile device
Smart business management Data-driven simulation as predictive in SMSs to realize optimization management [140].
As smart decision maker to quickly make precise resolution [141]
3760 Int J Adv Manuf Technol (2019) 103:3751–3768
The autonomous evolution mechanism of SMSs is realized by
encapsulating the machine learning, mathematical algorithm,
production engineering, lean management, and other technologies with other methods under the multidisciplinary fusion to
get the optimizing KPIs. For example, autonomous evolution
mechanism is a black box of the operators, including the sensing of the customers’ requirements and internal operation of
SMSs. The autonomous evolution mechanism focuses on
modularity, progressive construction, and real-time adaptation
to change the environment. Yan Lu et al. [145] describe SMSs
as the manufacturing ecosystems, where the components are as
different as the individuals. We proposed the autonomous evolution mechanism of SMSs based on the multilevel Darwinist
brain [146]. Autonomous evolution mechanism of SMSs design refers to the bio autonomous mechanism [147]. The mathematical algorithm of SMSs is drawn on the experience of the
Robotics 
Sensor 
parts 
Smart machine 
Smart logistics 
equipment
Mobile equipment
Display screen Storage and
communication
device
Fig. 3 Physical layer of SMSs
Smart workshop
Smart factory 
Smart factory 1
Smart factory 2 
Smart factory N
Smart workshop
Smart workshop
Smart 
workshop
Local smart 
connection
Local smart 
connection
Fig. 4 Smart interconnection and
communication layer of SMSs
Int J Adv Manuf Technol (2019) 103:3751–3768 3761
bio evolving principle. Therefore, we proposed the autonomous
evolution mechanism of SMSs based on multilevel Darwinist
brain as shown in Fig. 6.
5.2 Autonomous scheme for SMSs
The future autonomous scheme with hierarchical architecture
integrates the business, technologies, and autonomous function requirements of SMSs into an evolvable autonomous
platform. Structure of autonomous scheme is inspired by the
Intelligent Control System of Hierarchical Architecture
(ICSHA) [148], which combined intelligent control aiming
for SMSs’ actives and smart elements. The hierarchical architecture of SMSs’ autonomous scheme can be the guidelines
for the manufacturer, which contains the smart planning
scheme, smart execution scheme, and smart control scheme.
Under the individual customization environment, the artificial
immune algorithm and evolutionary fuzzy recursive neural
network (EFRNN) [149] algorithm are used in the reorganization autonomous scheme with dynamic demands and KPIs.
Figure 7 shows the hierarchical architecture of SMSs’ autonomous scheme driven by objective. The autonomous scheme
is as follows:
& Smart control layer: it aims to accomplish the customized
production and full utilization of equipment and resources through efficiently organizing manufacturing
resource and basic smart cells (smart robotics, human, AGV, etc.). Under the sub-KPIs, the autonomy
scheme of smart control layer was achieved by big
data, iQGA (an improved Quantum-inspired Genetic
Algorithm) [150], multi-rule and other intelligent
algorithm.
& Smart execution layer: it aims to better realize the smart
execution sub-KPIs getting from the smart planning layer,
including the quality ratio, availability, effectiveness,
planned runtime per item, etc. based on the ISO-22400
standard [151]. Smart execution layer is the bridge of the
bottom layer and the top layer achieving multi-objective
collaboration and optimization.
Dynamic Requirement KPIs
Requirement Scheme 
KPIs
Autonomous evolution mechanism 
Autonomous scheme 
Planning 
Traditional manufacturing systems 
Execution Control 
Autonomous SMSs
Self-decision Self-organization 
 Algorithm Rules 
Self-sensing Self-adaptive 
Smart 
planning 
Smart 
execution 
Smart 
control 
Task Subtask Actor 
Feedback 
Control 
Fig. 5 Directions of smart
manufacturing systems
Table 5 Mapping SMSs
requirements to future perspective Currents researches Future perspective
Objective Objective are mapped to the adaptive the dynamic requirements
& KPIs of SMSs
Functional requirements Autonomous evolution mechanism integrates the self-sensing,
self-adaptive, self-organizing, and self-deciding function,
achieved by the artifice algorithm and rules to realize self-optimization
of the SMSs activities based on the KPIs and dynamic requirements
Business requirements Business requirements are mapped to autonomous scheme, including
smart planning layer, smart execution layer, and smart control layer
Technologies requirements Autonomous SMSs are realized through integrating all emerging
technologies into autonomous evolution mechanism and
autonomous schemes
Components The components are mapped to autonomous evolution mechanism
and autonomous scheme, and are driven by the dynamic
requirements and KPIs in the future
3762 Int J Adv Manuf Technol (2019) 103:3751–3768
& Smart planning layer: it aims to realize the smart planning
KPIs, including sustainable value added, and win-win
partnership, through the evolutionary fuzzy recursive neural network algorithm and optimize SMSs’ historical
KPIs. Based on the dynamic requirements, KPIs are
decomposed into sub-KPIs for smart execution layer.
6 Conclusion
In the AI and IoTs era, the SMSs have been focused by government, enterprise, institution, and scholar. This paper
reviewed the last 5 years’ articles more focusing on the objective, requirements, and components of SMSs. Through this
study, we want to help more traditional manufacturing enterprises to achieve intelligent transformation through checking
the basic requirements and existing autonomous functions of
their own. Meanwhile, we gave the future perspective of autonomous SMSs for the enterprise, which had adequate digitalization and intelligent foundation. Therefore, we summarized this paper from two aspects: the basic requirements of
SMSs and the future perspective of SMSs autonomy.
6.1 The contributions of this paper can be concluded
as follows
1. Basic requirements of SMSs
Objective requirements: the design of smart manufacturing
systems need to consider the requirements of performance,
requirements of smart business and operation, requirements
of functions and technologies, requirements of components,
and research challenges.
& Autonomous lean operation
& Sustainable value business model
& Win-win partnership development for related stakeholder
Functional requirements: a comprehensive review of autonomous function of SMSs was concluded into four levels to
better use the data, information, knowledge, and wisdom/value. The overall autonomous function was realized based on
the emerging technologies. Autonomous SMSs integrated the
advanced technology, soft technology, and information communication technology and information operation technology,
to achieve autonomous optimization and autonomous
operation.
& Data, information sensing capability
& Deal with dynamic challenge capability
& Optimization, load balance capability
& Predictive and prognostics capability
Technologies requirements: Emerging technologies used in
SMSs not only refer to product lifecycle management, but also
refer to autonomous system, which integrates AI and evolution leaning method to satisfy SMSs self-evolution. The future
of smart manufacturing systems needs to allocate dynamic
demand tasks based on key performance indicators.
& Advanced manufacturing technologies
& Computing and predictive capacities
& Communication and interoperability
& Safety and security technologies support
Business requirements help the enterprise better achieve the
strategic target from the top-down method. It integrated the
SMSs Activities 
Satisfaction models 
SMSs activities 
Internal models 
SMSs Activities 
world models 
Sensing Acting 
SMSs
Activities 
Current 
action 
Big data 
Real-time data 
SMSs Activities 
World models 
learning 
SMSs Activities 
Internal models 
learning 
SMSs Activities 
Satisfaction 
models learning 
SMSs Activities 
Current world model
SMSs activities 
Current internal 
model
SMSs Activities 
Current satisfaction 
model
AS- Action optimization 
Environment 
Self -sensing 
Self-decision
Self-organization Self-adaptive 
Fig. 6 Based on multilevel Darwinist brain of SMSs’ autonomous evolution mechanism
Int J Adv Manuf Technol (2019) 103:3751–3768 3763
objective, function, and technologies to design their business
in SMSs collaboration platform through the information
flow and data stream to enhance the enterprise operation, sharing resource and real-time stakeholder
cooperation.
& Smart business planning and logistics
& Operations managements
& Smart control
Components of SMSs are completely integrating objective,
function, technology, and business of SMSs. Based on attributes, function, and application perspective, we concluded
SMSs into three levels.
& Physical components of SMSs contain the basic construction elements and smart elements
& Smart communication and interconnection level realize
real-time collaboration, interoperability, and globalization
of SMSs
& Application layer achieves virtualization, convenience,
prediction, optimization, and win-win ecosystem.
2. Future perspective and autonomous SMSs paradigm
The authors provide a direction of autonomous SMSs driven by KPIs, which can be autonomically divided into subindicators at different level. The autonomous SMSs involve
two parts: an autonomous evolution mechanism and an autonomous scheme that are worth discussing together.
Of course, implementation of autonomy SMSs is inseparable from the joint efforts of important and appropriate hightech, intelligent equipment, intelligent communication, intelligent management, personnel, funds, and all stakeholders. In
EFRNN 
Algorithm
KPIs
Sub-KPIs 1
Sub-KPIs 2
Sub-KPIs N
Smart planning 
layer 
Scheduling 
Agenda 
Sub-KPIs 1
Sub-KPIs 2
Sub-KPIs N
Smart execution layer 
Memory 
iQGA
Rule 
generator 
Smart control layer 
Exploration 
process 
qAdaptor 
New 
actions
New 
rules 
Rule-Based 
controller Percepter 
Worker 
Smart 
equipment 
Smart logistic 
Smart meter 
RFID
Implementing 
Schedule
Sub-KPIs
Multi-Rule 
Base
Robotics 
Update Control 
rules Satisfactory 
(sensory information )
Actions Events 
SubKPIs i has been 
Unsatisfactory 
completely executed 
Big data, Cloud computing, Cloud platform 
(Fault diagnosis and forecast, design real-time optimization, cluster optimization, 
energy optimization, resource optimization, production optimization, etc. )
Smart cells 
IoTs, CPS 
3D printer 
AR/VR
EFRNN 
Algorithm
KPIs
Sub-KPIs 1
Sub-KPIs 2
Sub-KPIs N
Smart planning 
layer 
Scheduling 
Agenda 
Sub-KPIs 1
Sub-KPIs 2
Sub-KPIs N
Smart execution layer 
Memory 
iQGA
Rule 
generator 
Smart control layer 
Exploration 
process 
qAdaptor 
New 
actions
New 
rules 
Rule-Based 
controller Percepter 
Worker 
Smart 
equipment 
Smart logistic 
Smart meter 
RFID
Implementing 
Schedule
Sub-KPIs
Multi-Rule 
Base
Robotics 
Update Control 
rules Satisfactory 
(sensory information )
Actions Events 
SubKPIs i has been 
Unsatisfactory 
completely executed 
Big data, Cloud computing, Cloud platform 
(Fault diagnosis and forecast, design real-time optimization, cluster optimization, 
energy optimization, resource optimization, production optimization, etc. )
Smart cells 
IoTs, CPS 
3D printer 
AR/VR
Fig. 7 Hierarchical architecture
of SMSs’ autonomous scheme
3764 Int J Adv Manuf Technol (2019) 103:3751–3768
future work, this autonomous evolution mechanism and autonomous scheme are worthy to be applied in real discrete
manufacturing industry.
Acknowledgements The authors appreciate the editor and anonymous
reviewers for their helpful comments and suggestions on this article.
The author would like to thank the Shanghai Institute of Producer
Service Development (SIPSD), Shanghai Research Centre for industrial
Informatics (SRCI2), and National Natural Science Foundation of China
(Grant No. 71632008) for the funding support to this research.
